Hello and welcome. Good morning everyone. Again, we'll strengthen our video more in Dzogchen
and appreciation and a little bit of vastness, motivation of the bodhicitta and then perfect,
high-perfect motivation for realization and meditation. That means we're activating those
qualities. We call it as the Dzogchen, vastness, motivation, vastness, motivation of the bodhicitta
and then high-perfect status as we went the other day and many of you know already that.
So, five parts of stabilization. And then now, this Heart Sutra. Generally, what the
difference between Heart Sutra and Dzogchen teachings. Oh, Mahamudra teachings. Meditation
or the meditation level, there's no difference. All meaning of the Heart Sutra and the Pandyakwaram
ata,
Dzogchen teaching, Mahamudra, Madhyamukha and then in Tibetan Buddhism, also known as Jyusi,
purification practices and our two practices, all are synonyms. All these practices are discussing
and explaining about the nature of the mind, nature of everything. Everything. Nature of
everything. Nature has no difference. Whatever it is, there's no really difference at all.
What makes difference is a display. That display is different. That is because it's changing,
moving, reflecting, upcoming different things. So, it's changing. Nature remains the same. There's
no difference. So therefore, Pandyakwaramata and Dzogchen teachings are the same. What is all the
difference between to explore the nature, nature of everything. The techniques are different. That
's
what the Buddha teaching says. Vedayana has more skillful means. More skillful means. Because of
that, more advanced. And also, Vedayana practitioners are more courageous to embrace that. That
means,
Vedayana practitioners are not distracted by the ego clinging. And then, maybe even more,
more kind of clay, not distracted by the traditions and that leaning, that substance. I want this,
not wanting that. That attitude, that mental area is not restricted. Fully courageous,
embrace, to discover and embracing and be that nature. Therefore, what is that? That also means,
for example, patient, patient paramatas. When you practice, one of the patient paramatas, when we
divide the person, I mean, not one week. Buddha also highlight those patient paramatas into three.
And one of that is known as not scared with the profound meaning of the dharma. Not scared with
the profound meaning of dharma. That means, not scared, not afraid with the meaning of the great
happiness. When you scare that, then we are going to hesitate. Then we are going to hesitate. We
are
not going to cultivate it. They belong. They belong. And so, Vedayana practitioners are more
courageous, more fearless to everything. We are not going to become the obedient of the ego
clinging.
They are not become the asset, like service to the ego controls. They are often, often. Therefore,
sometimes people also think, "Oh, everything is mine." For example, in the Zokki teaching and as
well as Muhammad, everything is mine. It is very scary. Everything is mine. That means nothing is
there. They are scared. That is true. Many times happen. And then we were talking about everything
is a dream. Everything is a magic. Again, some people say, "Oh, again, I kind of don't feel
comfortable with thinking of everything as a dream. Everything is magic." And then similarly,
if everything is the emptiness, or I can't stand it. That means they are scared. That means in the
deep dawn, it is controlled by the ego. Ego, I don't want. I want. That is hope and affairs. That
is
ego. Ego serves us. Realidly, when we are embracing the nature of as it is, we are not losing. And
that's why in the Heart of Sutra, we join. And then we go through, some of these will come. No
gaining, no losing. Realidly level, there's nothing really changing. Only we discover where things
are.
Where things are. So that is what the techniques are different. We are approaching. For example,
in the here, in Heart of Sutra teaching, is Mahayana teaching. It is the Pandya Parabhata teaching.
Where we explore the nature of the great, of everything, coming from the outskirts, for example,
Buddha said, "home is emptiness." Coming from outskirts, from the gross. That means from gross,
gross to the satara. Going. In the Dokki teachings, or in the Thandras, such as Mahamudra and Dokki
going with the right to the target. Target. What is? Mind. Mind is emptiness. Going to. So in this
case, for example, in Heart of Sutra, then what? We say the consciousness is emptiness. Conscious
ness is
emptiness. And emptiness. And then, the consumption is emptiness. Perception is emptiness. And
after
getting everything. From the source coming out, that's what the Dokki techniques are so targeted,
instantly activating that. But to embrace in this Dokki teaching, then again, again,
the other Dokki practice in the Buddha teaching, Mahayana, and always in the Buddha and as well as
all the great monks and Gurbi Muslims, they are highly capabilities, highly intelligent, highly
varied. Felicitous. Felicitous. To embrace, to observe that realization. So when you have that,
then it's full. And then, target with the devotions, heart rate and commitment. Men,
to embrace that. Then we discover from the deepest levels, or we use it as dynamic, dynamic,
dynamic, to uprooting the whole grasping, cleanness, from the very source, not from gross levels.
Otherwise, we need to come, whether you use from the outskirts or from gross to the subtle,
or from subtle to the gross, the nature is the same. There's no difference at all. It's all the
same. Same thing. For that reason, every teaching says Pandya Paramata, Mademaka, Mahamadara,
and Dokki teaching, all the same. In practice, when you practice and meditate, it is the same.
There's no different compartment for the Pandya Paramata. In mind, there's no different compartment
for the practitioners of the Pandya Paramata, or Mademaka, or Mahamadara, or Dokki, it's the same
nature of the mind. Or same mind, same nature of the mind, discover that nature. So therefore,
this Heart Sutra is Dokki teaching. That is Dokki teaching. It's teaching on the nature of
everything.
It's also this Heart Sutra is only our teaching, exactly only our way things are, exactly where
things are. It's not overstated, it's not understated, it's way as is, simple, gradual, as it is.
In that respect, we also think of these five perfect, five perfects. Five perfects, perfect time,
perfect teacher, perfect retinas, perfect places, perfect teaching, as in this teaching,
Heart Sutra explains. In Dokki teaching, we already mentioned perfect time is what?
Time that which is beyond the conceptions. That time is known as fourth time, beyond the conception
.
So that means, it is the great period from the beginning state of the time,
is beyond the fourth, three times, in the fourth time status. That's the status.
And then, perfect teacher, perfect teacher is, again, is in Dokki teaching, what's called,
Buddha summit the butter. Buddha Kshakyamuni and the Buddha summit the butter has no difference.
This is the perfect Buddha, Buddha summit the butter, Dharmakaya Buddha, Buddha summit the butter,
to expo of these, these grades of teachings. Teachings in that four times, from the fourth time,
expo.
So Dharmakaya Buddha of Dokki. Far from the retinas is, then, it's self-discipline,
always in the teachings, self-discipline emanated all the retinas. That means,
no difference from the natural level, the religious level, everything. It's all the same.
And that means, what? Also, in the Buddha's own perceptions, Buddha's own conceptions,
that everyone is, is in purity status. On Buddha's, Buddha or the Buddha, him or her,
when they perceive things, they not perceive as, as, for them, we talk for, for their self, I think
,
that they're not really perceiving. It's any kind of, I mean, in purity status.
Everything is purity status. Everything is a display of the primordial essence,
self-discipline, primordial essence. Everything is a display of the primordial essence. In the
Buddha's,
his own perception, his own realizations, his own display of the primordial essence.
This self-discipline also can be understanding, too. One is, Buddha, his own display of his own
realizations or that everything is enlightened status. There's nothing is not enlightened.
What in the teaching said, in the Gaurangara teaching said, everything is enlightened. Even the
Buddha
is looking to find one is not pure or impure. There's nothing to find. Everything is pure.
That's how the Buddha's there. And each, each individual, for example, each individual,
all those self emanated from the primordial essence, their primordial essence, all that displays,
arises from self-discipline of the primordial essence. Therefore, all is purity. Whatever the
illusion hold, the grasping, you want it, they cling and hold. And that, for the reality level,
is all purity status, primordial substance. Therefore, there's nothing is in it. All is purity
status.
And for those reasons, what in the teaching said, said, see, the way we are understanding things,
everything is pure, as I said many times. Of course, the sentient beings don't see that
in that. Don't see. See, because cataracts of the dualities, cataracts of the dualities,
that's, they won't see that. Otherwise, it is all pure. Who made that cataract of duality?
Nobody else did that and put all our, on our existence. It's one's own creation of the
grasping. We create. Otherwise, all is pure. Pure. So therefore, I mean, therefore,
all the raccoons are the western beings, enlightened beings, on reality levels.
Now we're looking, the guilty level, we're looking from the repressed point of view.
All one's own pure, evenness point of view. We're looking. So the time is beyond the three time
and the fourth time. And the retinues are all display of the primordial wisdom. Each of everyone
is a display of their own sub-display of the wisdom as it is. But see, also everything is
in that pureed status, pureed status. And the perfect places. Then is all enlightened status.
And in what, in the way the energy is said, everything is enlightened. Nothing is not
enlightened. Five elements are enlightened. All five primordial bruddhas. Five aggregators are
enlightened. And that in the teaching we went through in the Dokhi teaching too. All is
Sambukaya bruddhas. So in the reality, the Dokhi level, what is it? Everything is display of the
three caayas. Dharmakaya, Sambukaya, and Nirmakaya realizables. Everything is that display status.
So therefore, area is Akanistha. Area or place, perfect place, is Akanistha. It's beyond the
dualities. Beyond the duality, it is display of the primordial wisdom. Akanistha, beyond the dual
ity.
On that, not under, not within the dualities. It is pureed status. So that is what, that.
Again from the request point of view or from the Buddha's own point of view, presuming that
everything
is purely display. Then the teaching itself, the great absolute truth teachings. Pandyabhara
nadai is an absolute truth teachings. It's not related to the teachings. It's also direct pointing
out teaching. Buddha each time pointing up one up another. Another pointing out to wake up us from
the ego cleanliness. Wake up that book. It's how we have it in patterns, habit patterns. Release
that
notion of the habit pattern. Habit pattern, ego clinging itself is immediate. It's not something
solid, existing things. But even though yet it's not solid existing, it is the trouble matters.
From the beginning of time until now, to our own self as well as others. All living beings.
So what is teaching? Teaching is a great teaching of the absolute truth. Same as the zoki teachings
.
So that is what kind of generally understand. Again, in the sense that we also, again it's
accorded teaching, following the accorded teaching of the great master and the great master letter
and the great post zoki teacher of the Tibetan. So this is heart sutra, that is as zoki teaching
or the very other teaching and as is the teaching from the hiri sense. So that is